Hey there and welcome to
a really interesting video.
For this particular video, I
want your undivided attention.
So if you're watching this video,
laying down on the sofa or
while commuting, please pay
a little bit more attention.
This video actually requires that.
In this video we're going
to study about inheritance
as well as composition.
Inheritance you might have studied
in Python quite a lot.
Composition is talked really
less, but it's used quite
a lot in the production.
So I want to walk you through.
First, let's talk about inheritance.
Knowing the inheritance will
solve like 90% of our problem.
For this video, just like you might
have seen inheritance in the real
life, that some people inherit a
car, some people inherit some
great amount of money, some people
inherit some house or a great
property.
That's exactly like how it works.
If your dad has earned a great amount
of property, you inherit that
you don't start from scratch.
That's reality of life as well.
So same we can do with
the programming as well.
If some class has done some work, you
can just go ahead and inherit that.
Yeah, that's allowed in programming.
You can inherit from any class.
Like there are rules as well.
But as of now, let's see that
we can inherit from any class.
Let's see the demo of this one.
I have already created a file
for you and we're going to first see
the inheritance, then we are going
to see the composition as well.
It's easy.
So how do we create a class?
Let's go ahead and say that we
create a class, call this
one as base chai because
hey, this is how we create a chai.
The base chai always remains same.
We create a simple constructor.
Remember init
in it, that's our constructor.
It takes the self as parameter
in this and there we go.
What it will do is apart from
self, let's also take the type.
What kind of a chai you
would love to have?
I would love to have a self
type which will be type underscore.
There we go.
Chai is prepared.
Now let's also create a method
for preparing a chai.
Prepare.
This one will be self.
Just like that.
Every single method gets this.
There we go.
And this time it prints.
It doesn't return anything.
Again, my choice.
I want to print it.
I'll print it.
This one is going to say preparing
what type of chai you are preparing.
I can use self
to address any variable.
This variable is not being
created, but still it exists.
Because constructor variables
don't need to Be created.
Again, if you are creating
in constructor, that means
it's known that it will be there.
And I will say chai with four dots,
because four dots makes life fun.
All right, so this is how
you create the class.
We shouldn't have any problem in this
the way how inheritance works.
Now that you have the, basic idea
of how the chai is being made, you
can go ahead and say masala chai.
There we go.
No big deal.
Now we use parenthesis.
But hitesh, you said no
parenthesis in the classes.
Yes, I'm still correct.
You only use parenthesis
in the name of the class.
If you want to inherit something.
This is where it is compulsory that
you present some of the class here.
Otherwise it will
always give you error.
That's a special syntax.
Now in this, all I do is, in this
inheritance, I just add the spices.
So somebody told me in my
ancestor that, hey, this
is how we make the chai.
The next generation came in and just
learned how to add the spices on it.
That's all we do.
So in this one we simply go ahead
and say print and there we go.
We are going to say adding cardamom.
Cardamom, My favorite one.
Ginger and I don't like it
much, but let's just say it is
also adding the clothes.
There we go.
So this is it.
And you might be wondering, okay, how
do we create objects and everything?
Don't worry, I will walk you through.
The creation of object is
exactly same
and the process also works same.
But since we are already here, let's
also see how the composition works.
That's an interesting
concept and idea.
This is it, by the way, this is it.
This is how all you
define the inheritance.
This is your base class.
Any class needs it.
You can just go ahead and pass
on that class and that's it.
It works.
We will see more such example.
Now let's see that if I define,
another interesting class
that says, a chai shop here.
All right, no big deal.
We can create that.
Now notice here, this is
not inheriting any class.
So what can we do here?
Let me show an interesting
concept which says chicls,
just short for class.
By the way, this is
just a variable name.
Feel free to call it
whatever you like.
Now in this I can actually
hold any of my class as well.
Excuse me on that,
we'll keep our classes informal.
It's just fun.
I love to teach.
So there we go.
I can just go ahead
and say base chai.
Now notice here something
really, really odd.
This Is base chai.
This is the syntax of inheriting.
But hey, where are those things?
If we are creating an object,
where is the syntax?
No, it doesn't exist.
If you are actually inheriting
all the values of this base chai,
then you don't actually put
the parenthesis inside the class.
That's the syntax of composition.
When you actually create object,
that's a whole different story.
Remember creating object VS
creating classes, these are two
different syntax entirely.
So now that I have access to this
whole, thing that exists
in the base child, I can
actually do some fun stuff.
Let me show you.
First of all, I can just go ahead
and create my init and I can pass on
this self and, just work like that.
So this is my basic chai shop.
It has its own constructor.
In this I go ahead and say self chai
will be available like self, but I'm
not going to do it like this.
I will go ahead and say I want
to refer to the base class.
And in the base class I will go ahead
and always prepare a regular chai.
Can you see the linking here
that I'm not actually directly
creating a constructor.
Through this constructor, I'm
actually passing the value into this
chai Cls, which further down will
pass on this value to the base
chai when it will be executed.
These are just
instructions right now.
They are not executed, they're
executed with the parenthesis.
So it will pass on this regular value
to this base chai constructor.
This will be passed on here,
just here at line number two
and they will assign the value
in line number three.
Oh God, that is too much
of passing a variable.
But now that you know the journey
of variable, this will make you
a professional Python developer.
All right, pretty good, pretty good.
What else we can do?
You can also define your regular
methods, just like in this.
Let's just say we also serve.
Because we are a chai shop,
we should be serving that.
So in this I can just again use self.
No big deal.
I can print.
What do I want to print?
A, formatted string
that says serving.
What type of chai are you serving?
All right, I'll put some variables
into this chai intheshop
and what it also does, it actually
calls some methods as well.
First of all, one problem at a time.
What type of chai are you preparing?
How can you refer that?
Because.
Can I just say self chai,
probably, but actually the type
is not available here.
The type is available
in here because that's the variable
inside the base class.
So you will see this syntax quite a
lot that in this we'll go ahead and
say first of all we have to address
it as self dot then chicls and I can
go ahead and say chai Cls type as
well.
But remember now that you have
transferred all of this control
inside this variable,
I don't need to say this chicls.
Let's keep that reserved only
for accessing the methods
of the base class.
Now that the control is being
transferred here, you'll be
surprised to know I can just go
ahead and put up a dot and notice
here prepare and type.
I have access to both the methods.
Isn't it fun?
It is.
So let's just say we say
simply Chai type and the Chai
type will be printed.
Not only that, I can here
just go ahead and say self
dot and chai and I can run
this method prepare as well.
And I have to run this.
How interesting that is.
And even interesting to this,
let's just say there is another.
This is our regular Chai Shop.
We will have another.
Yes, I know too much.
That's why I say is
undivided attention.
We also have one more Chai
Shop which is fancy.
Chai Shop.
It's too fancy.
This one just inherits
let's just say Chai shop.
So you have opened up a new branch.
We are going too much in depth
and that's what the production
code looks like here.
All I have to do is simply say
that hey chicls, I'm taking
a reference of this and I will
simply go ahead and take a reference
of this Masala Chai.
So everything is available
from the Masala Chai and you
can use the same syntax.
You can define the constructor,
take all the values
up here and conserve this.
This would be reputation.
I don't want to do that.
But let's go ahead and take
a summary of this.
I know that's a lot.
What we did here is just
simply creating a class.
There is no big deal here.
I can just even minimize this.
We know this part in the Masala Chai.
For the first time we saw
the syntax of inheritance
which is just this much.
It.
That is it.
We didn't did anything extra.
We assume that if you create
an object from the Masala Chai
you will get all the values.
You can just put up a dot
and use add spices.
But also you can use a dot and have
the prepare method access as well.
That is it.
Now if I go up here, this is
where the composition starts.
So notice here this chai shop
doesn't inherit anything, but
inside the class I said I want to
keep a reference of this base chai
and this variable gets a reference
to everything that's there in the
base chai.
Pretty interesting syntax.
Now when we create and initialize
and constructor, I simply says, hey,
I will say self chai cls, but as
soon as I create an object from it,
now the regular thing starts.
It's creating, literally
creating an object and passing
a reference in this.
So I create a regular type of chai
and pass on a reference to this one.
Since this self chai is ultimately
creating a base chai for me,
what I can do is I can access all
the methods of the base chai.
So if I can access type, I
can access prepare as well.
And that's what exactly we did here.
So here we access the self chai
type because it's an object
that's a composition and we can
also access self chai prepare.
Pretty interesting.
Now let's create also some objects,
although not really necessary,
but I'll show you anyways.
So let's just say you go ahead
and say this will be a Chai shop.
There you go.
Access everything.
So now if you go ahead and say shop,
put up a dot, you get access to Chai
Chai CLS serve, whichever you want
to use, you can go ahead and use it.
I will also have a fancy variable
and I will say this one actually
comes from Fancy Chai shop
and and feel free to access any
fancy method which are available.
Chai Chai CLS, serve.
Because hey, it also
comes from there.
So we can just go ahead
and work on that.
For example, the shop can actually
go ahead and serve just like this.
Not only that, fancy can also go
ahead and serve because it actually
inherits Masala chai, which further
inherits the base chai as well.
Pretty fun, isn't it?
Yeah, that's linking this diagram is
something that you have to make up
in the brain only that only works.
So this one can actually
also go ahead and serve.
There we go.
Fancy also serves.
The Chai shop also serves the chai.
Now fancy the advantage is fancy
has a method of not, like this.
Do we have any method of adding,
since fancy is add spices.
My bad, its add.
And we cannot actually go ahead
and use it like this because I don't
have an access to this masala chai
directly in the fancy Chai shop.
Because we are actually
inheriting Chai shop but we never
inherited the Masala Chai.
So in order to access this
I have to use this
reference, this composition.
So I have to say chaicls
and through which I can actually
access the add spices.
Isn't it very interesting?
It is little bit of a production
level code, so it will take
a little time to digest.
But you'll get the idea.
I can print it, no problem.
But printing is not going
to make any life easier.
So you still have to figure out that.
Okay, this is.
Oh, we have a problem.
Masalachaya is missing one
positional requirement argument.
Did we accepted any argument
into this one?
Oh yes, we shouldn't
be actually doing it.
But let me just go
ahead and fix this.
Now let's go ahead and read
this error because
this is the real programming.
Nothing works out of the box.
Let's see what is
the problem that's going on.
It is saying that the Masalachay
addspices is missing one argument.
And if you remember, we have
discussed this exact same
problem, the argument self.
So what is happening here is
you are using this reference
of the object and, and this
requires some of the context.
It doesn't have any context.
So in the fancy you're
creating the object.
But Masala Chaya requires that hey,
you give me something as self.
It has no idea who is calling it.
It is a missing context problem.
So how can we go ahead and fix this?
It can be fixed,
with the existing solution as well.
If you remember.
Now this fancy, instead
of referencing this because what
it's doing, it's actually going
into the Masala Chai.
All right.
But you forgot one thing.
We are inheriting
the Chai shop as well.
So that means as soon as the fancy
Chai shop is being created,
always and always, whenever
an object is created, it always is
created by the constructor.
If there is no constructor,
the class will automatically
create a constructor
behind the scene for you.
So constructor is always there.
And it also gave us a chance
to discuss about the constructor,
how good the errors are.
So if I go ahead and create
a constructor via this
fancy Chai shop,
this might have done it somehow.
So this one no constructor here.
So whose constructor might be used?
The base class.
Does the Chai shop
has any constructor?
Yes, it has the constructor.
This is the one.
Are we storing the all references
of Chai Cls here in the Chai?
Yes, we are.
And this is an object
of the base chai.
So the problem is solved here.
This one didn't had an idea
of how to provide a reference.
But if I go ahead and use
the constructor, that means now
my object is calling the method,
so I have the reference.
Got it.
I know it will take one more
Var time to Var this, but let's
go ahead and run this.
Probably another error will help us
to learn something more.
Oh, this time it works.
So this whole sequence
of how things are going on.
Let me summarize this one
more time so that it will help you
to understand this.
Here's the summary part.
We simply created a base class.
Every class has a constructor.
If you don't create a constructor,
the class will automatically
create one behind the scene
at the time of execution.
We have two methods,
Init and prepare.
That's it done in the Masala
Chai we have just one method.
But hey, I cannot use this
method directly because
it has no constructor.
So either call it via the class,
but if you'll create directly
call it via the class the self,
how you will pass on the context.
Very difficult.
So either just create it
an object and then call it.
Got it.
Then this starts the composition.
So sometimes we don't want
to inherit the classes, but we want
to take a reference of it.
So we have got the reference of it.
And now within this class I am
actually calling an object.
So this is literally creating
an object from this class
just by passing it here.
I'm not using the parenthesis so
that I can hold the reference that
okay, I'll create an object, but in
some time, not just immediately.
So this is exactly where we
created and we hold the reference
all of this up here.
So this is literally an object
and this object can be
used anywhere in the class.
Pretty easy.
Fun stuff.
We also created another one
which is Fancy Chai Shop
which inherits as well.
So it's an example of inheritance.
It's also an example
of composition as well.
So we are inheriting and as well
as you are compositing as well.
Pretty complex, but this is
how the production grade.
Now we'll increase the level
of complexity in the code.
So Shop Chai Shop.
Pretty easy.
Fancy Fancy Shop.
We use the serve method
in both of them.
No problem, because serve
actually doesn't do much.
Not here.
The serve is here.
If any object creates it.
Where is the serve?
Here it is.
The serve method is
in the Chai shop, obviously.
And any object created from the Chai
shop or any of the class which
inherits it like Fancy shop can
actually call it no problem at all.
It has the context.
All right, so object is calling it.
Object is calling it.
We saw an error when we
tried to Fancy, when we try
to add the spices.
Why?
Because in order to add
the spices, you are not calling
from the base class, you're
calling from a composition.
Now, in the composition, this is
the reference that I'm having.
So there might be some
constructor that might have
called while creating this.
If I haven't provided a constructor,
Chai Shop might have provided.
So Chai Shop actually gives me
a reference of this and I create
a constructor, from here.
So this is the constructor
and I take the reference or I create
a new variable which is chai.
So this has the context.
So my context problem is solved.
And simply I go up here that.
Hey, fancy.
Now you have access to this chai,
and through the chai, the object
of this class or the base class
can call any of the method.
So there we go.
All right.
Similarly, you can have
a, composition for
the base chai as well.
You can have this and run those
methods as well by creating this.
Pretty simple.
Not that simple, to be honest.
So again, as I mentioned, this class
requires undivided attention,
but the topics like inheritance is
being taught all over the places.
But topics like composition are very
rare to see in the video courses.
I brought it up for you.
Make sure to rate us as well.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in next video.